 	Following the death of George Floyd, Black Lives Matter protests sprang up across the Country, aiming to bring attention to widespread police brutality and the pervasiveness of systemic racism. This challenging mirrors the calls to action in Gallon’s “Making a Case for the Black Digital Humanities” and Noble’s “Towards a Critical Black Digital Humanities”. Both Gallon and Noble highlight the necessity of making visible the invisible forces of white privilege and the long-withstanding tradition of colonialism. Only by making these visible can we be in a position to challenge them. The invisibility of white normativity perpetuates racism. Noble argues that “it is through [the] stance of not being engaged with the Western colonial past, a past that has never ended, that we perpetuate digital media practices that exploit the labor of people of color” (Noble 2019). Though she is specifically referring to systemic racism in the Digital Humanities, I believe that her argument is relevant in all corners of Western society; the prevailing, hegemonic view that racism is “solved” encourages people to disengage from any discourse regarding race, which enables the perpetuation of oppression.

	The Black Lives Matter movement challenges the dominant cultural narrative of race by protesting the role of police in systemic racism, and the confrontations between protesters and police demonstrate the failure of law enforcement in addressing their role in racial violence as well as the need for reform. With the resurgence in protests in recent years, we’ve seen a resurgence in police responses, and those responses have become increasingly violent, as Dunker states, “while use of force by police against protestors in the 1960s and 1970s transitioned to more collaborative approaches in the 1980s and 1990s… law enforcement have again moved toward using force against protesters,” including the Lincoln Police Department’s response to demonstrations this summer (Dunker 2020). The use of force by the LPD, and police in general, shows that law enforcement agencies have failed to recognize the precarity of minority communities, especially Black communities, and because discourse of race has been largely absent in America, this failure has been a persistent force in the US even in the 60 years following the civil rights movement. However, this has begun to change since the start of the Black Lives Matter movement in 2013, which garnered massive public attention, and thus shifted political discourse on race from disengagement to engagement. This is exemplified in part by the Lincoln Police Department, as the Black Lives Matter movement has been successful in compelling the LPD to rethink their relationship with the Black community. Lincoln Police Captain Jason Stille stated that the many protests that occurred in Lincoln this summer “[signaled that] police need to reengage groups they were already engaged with and look for new groups they haven’t engaged” He also said that “I thought we were doing a good job in the community. It certainly has been eye-opening for me and maybe we haven’t done as good of a job as I think we have done” (Dunker 2020). This self-reflection shows the need for public discourse regarding race, as discourse makes visible structures of racism and illustrates the need for change.

Works Cited 

Dunker, Chris. “Protesters Describe Being Shot, Gassed during Black Lives Matter Rallies in Lincoln.” JournalStar.com, Lincoln Journal Star, 28 Oct. 2020, https://journalstar.com/news/local/crime-and-courts/protesters-describe-being-shot-gassed-during-black-lives-matter-rallies-in-lincoln/article_dadfbf6c-1649-54ad-8e43-67e48e174dcb.html