	Downtown Lincoln acts as an extension of UNL city campus in that the pandemic has necessitated a disruption of community while highlighting the role of individuals. This interpretation was derived from observation through a theoretical lens.

	I commute to UNL during the afternoon, and little has changed downtown since before the pandemic. Pedestrians still occupy Lincoln’s sidewalks, though there are less of them, and they are (mostly) wearing masks. I noticed a stark change during my evening commute, however. Prior to COVID, people flocked to downtown bars and restaurants. Now, the streets and bars are nearly empty, especially on weeknights. What hasn’t changed, though, is the amount of vehicular traffic downtown. I found this particularly interesting because it parallels the culture shift I observed on UNL city campus in Dev. Report. #1: there was a loss of community but a newfound emphasis on individuals.

	The absence of pedestrians accentuates the presence of motorists. Drivers have to contend less with crosswalks and more with other drivers, and each car functions as a personal safety-sphere of COVID protection. Seeing people in their cars but not on the sidewalks reinforces the notion of social isolation. You can see people, but you can’t interact with them.

	Knowing that Dev. Report #4 would be used in a future DH Publication forced me to deliberately consider the lens through which I observed downtown. During my observations for Dev. Report #1, I did not engage with UNL campus in a way that Ruecker and Roberts-Smith would characterize as an “interpretive experience,” which they describe as “the application of some theoretical lens.” I was not cognizant of the lens through which I was viewing campus until after I had completed my observations and began my reflection. For Dev. Report #4, however, I considered the lens through which I would observe downtown before and during my observations. I wanted to determine how my observations of UNL would correlate to observations of downtown, so I adopted a comparative lens for this report that would enable analysis of downtown Lincoln in relation to the concept of community disruption and individual agency.

	Knowing this report will be used in the second DH publication is an advantage and a hindrance. This knowledge adds emphasis on the importance of the observations I produce for this report, but because I don’t know what the second DH publication entails, the urge to record detailed observations clashed with the absence of knowledge that would inform the focus of said observations.